Let's take a step into the world of studies, Timothy Leery.
Who was he? And, uh, what were the most important ideas you've learned from.
Him? Well, I, I did have the, um,
opportunity to get to know him personally and to spend some time with him, uh,
Timothy leery. Um, well,
let's start with Nixon saying he's the most dangerous man in America.
<laugh> that's a good place to start. Yeah. Yes. Yeah. And,
and why did Nixon say that it's because of this, uh, tune in,
you know, turn, turn on, tune in, drop out mm-hmm <affirmative> um,
Timothy Lee was just an incredible advocate for, um,
think for yourself, question authority. Those were things he said all the time.
Think for yourself, question authority. He was a rebel. Um,
he was kicked outta west point. Um, he was a psychologist who,
um, was at Harvard for three years, from 60 to 63. Um,
before he got to Harvard, he had an experience with, uh, mushrooms,
um, in Mexico.
And that he said he learned more in that experience than he'd had in his entire
academic career before then, about how the human mind works.
Mm-hmm <affirmative>. And so he came to Harvard wanting to do, um,
her into psychedelics. Um,
and he did some very important studies, both of which, uh, well,
one was called the good Friday experiment,
which was whether psychedelics in religiously inclined people taking
souly in a religious setting,
whether it could produce a mystical experience that took place at marsh chapel
at the Boston university, because it's a little bit subjective,
or you could say entirely subjective, what people describe happens to them. Um,
he wanted to do another study, which would be a more objective measure,
and that was called the Concord prison experiment. And that was the thought,
if you can give people, um, SYOC,
Ibin mystical of connection type experiences while they're in prison,
when they get out,
they'll be more pro-social and they'll have reduced recidivism mm-hmm
<affirmative>. Um, so Tim did that.
He also did the naturalistic studies of giving loads of people celly and sort of
writing down what their experiences were, the range of experiences later on,
um, in his time at Harvard, he just,
they started doing L S D and, um, LSD is more cerebral,
longer lasting, not as reassuring in a way Asil Ibin uh,
sometimes he used to say that, um, if they never got into LSD,
they'd still be at Harvard <laugh> with thesy. Um,
so he was a great American psychologist,
but then <affirmative> and he got tired of the, uh,
psychology game you could say,
or he would say that he got more and more interested in, um,
cultural change mm-hmm <affirmative> and various musicians and artists,
and all sorts of people started coming to him for the psychedelic experience
that they are in a way for creativity, for other things.
So he started hanging out with, um, all sorts of, um, famous people or,
you know, creative people. And, um, he stopped, uh,
going to classes all a lot. And, um, rom dos Richard Albert,
you know, had, um, given LSD to a student that,
um,
Roos was courageous enough to admit that he had the sexual interest in
mm-hmm <affirmative>, uh, they weren't supposed to give it undergraduates.
That was about the only time that they ever did it.
And it's psychedelics just getting more and more controversial.
Even in the early sixties,
eventually got kicked out of Harvard and then he became kind of a cultural icon
for the counterculture and, um, was hounded by,
uh, the police and Nixon and spent a lot of time in jail. I mean,
he's incredible person. Um,
one thing that Ramdas said is that, um, Richard,
Albert Ramdas said, um, I'm a rascal,
but Lee's a scoundrel <laugh>, what's the distinction. Um,
Rascal's like in good fun. A scoundrel is like, you can't quite trust them.
I think. Um, uh,
think that it's a spec of sorts. Yeah.
I think that leery was someone who a little bit got addicted to media attention
and ah, but I, I think that, um,
overall he gets blamed a lot for the, um, backlash against the sixties,
the shutdown of psychedelic research.
I think that he is unfairly blamed for a lot of that. Um,
I think when you look back at the sixties, my sense, the,
the common narrative is that it was because psychedelics going wrong,
people took psychedelics, they weren't prepared, they had emotional breakdowns,
they went psychotic, they killed themselves,
they did this or that different problems of people taking psychedelics in, um,
context that they didn't and feel prefer safe in or,
or just they weren't prepared,
or they didn't know how much they were taking or all this that. So the,
the backlash was because psychedelics going wrong.
But I think the real reason while that did happen,
I think the real reason is psychedelics going right.
And people having this sense of connection. And then the opposite of what the,
I was hoping that it would kind of, um,
turn people inward and take them away from political struggles.
It actually motivated people once you actually, um,
have these psychological experiences,
your attitude towards death changes also this idea of, um,
death becoming an intrinsic part of life. It's a natural cycle.
It's not so much. So I think people realize that,
you know, while there's this, uh, billions of years have volution, you know,
infinity,
whatever that means in terms of time that we're here for a very limited time and
they end up wanting to use their time. Well,
they have a lessened fear of death and they want to build, uh,
this paradise on earth here now instead of later. So a,
a lot of people really did get motivated to challenge the Vietnam war to work on
the environmental movement, civil rights movement, women's rights movement,
anti TISM. And it was that challenge to the status quo that caused the,
a backlash. So leery is someone who, um, in 1990,
uh, we had a now maps. I started in 86. So in 1990,
we had this conference to raise money out in California and leery was there and
rondos was there.
And Ralph Metzner was there and Andy wild was there and Terrance McKenna was
there and Dennis McKenna was there and all, all these, but there,
there was one point where, um, Tim was, uh,
speaking and afterwards I was asking him some questions. And I, I said,
do you have any advice for us on how to work with the government and on
how to bring these psychedelics forward? That's what we're trying to do.
I've got this nonprofit for it. You know, we're trying to do this research.
What is your advice on how to bring this forward and how to work with the
government mm-hmm <affirmative> and he said, uh, the government <laugh>.
He said, I am so far past asking for permission for anything,
but I'm glad that you're doing it. <laugh> and then he held up my hand, like,
you know, like passing the torch. Wow. So it was, uh,
and that's one of my favorite or photographs of me and TA sort of like,
but it was the after this the government I'm so far past asking for permission
for anything, but yeah, I'm glad that you are.